Are you ready for a logic statements in javascript.
This is where logic allows you to make decisions within your code.
You can apply logic and take the next step and allow that code to determine what's going to get rendered
out.
So which block of code gets rendered next.
And in this section we're going to look at the Teron ary OPERATOR So we've seen this before earlier.
And we're going to go into more detail how it works and how you can apply it within your javascript
in order to start applying logic.
So basically it allows you to ask a question and see if that condition is true or false if it's true
then apply one value.
If it's false then apply that other value so allows you to apply two different sets of values to a condition.
And we can basically check to see if something is true or false and then have a result depending on
that.
There's our very quick short format in order to do conditional checks and apply that logic and that's
what ternary operators are all about.
They allow you that really easy shorthand method to apply some quick logic and get a response.
There's also the if statement so the if statement allows you to really build out that logic and execute
a block of code depending on what the result of that logic is.
And logic is really important when it comes to programming.
Because this is what programming is all about making those decisions and rendering out code depending
on what the outcome is of that decision.
There's also that if else statement so else provides you an alternative ending to your condition.
So if it's true it's going to do something and else provide you that opportunity to do something else.
And then there's the else if.
So you can ask another condition see if that one is true and then you could ask as many else if you
want into.
You run out of LCS and then you end up with that else.
So basically it allows you to ask a bunch to apply check if a bunch of conditions are true and if they're
not true then you can do something and render that within your javascript.
And there's a lot of power behind what you can do with conditional statements.
We're also going to look at the switch statement.
So the switch statement is an alternative.
Instead of writing a bunch of if elses You can write the switch statement which gives you the ability
to ask and see if a case is true and if it's true then you execute a block of code and you can go down
the road have a number of different cases that you can compare and you can see if they come out true.
And just like that if else statement you can apply alternative.
If none of the cases are true.
So this is great for creating different applications and you can apply these different conditional statements
depending on the application you're building.
And I'm going to show you two really good examples of what you can build using a simple conditional
statement.
So if we have a twin costs we throw it up in the air.
It's going to land either heads or tails.
And this is comparable to boolean.
So it's either true or false.
It can't be anything else and it's going to turn out to be one of those values and we're going to be
building out a twin cost simulation within this section as well in order to simulate tossing a coin
and getting a return value.
So something is going to happen and we're going to either end up with heads or tails in this application.
Then there's also another exercise in this course and we've packed it full of all kinds of exercises
so you can see the code in action and we're going to show you how to build a magic 8 ball.
It's going to be able to answer your questions and it's up to you to determine how javascript knows
what you're thinking within the magic 8 ball.
Where are you going to be building this application from scratch.
And this is where we're going to show you how the switch statement works and how you could apply switch
statements within your coding to really make things happen.
Both of these exercises are designed to get you coding to apply that coding that we're showing you within
the lesson.
So do try it out and do practice work alongside the lessons in order to build out these applications
and get familiar with logic statements because they're super important building block to coding and
it's going to become really important in the latter part of the course as we build out more complex
applications.